JUDY WOODRUFF: But, first, in
the German city
of Cologne, more than 100 women
have filed
complaints about being sexually
molested by
men described as being of --
quote -- "North
African or Arab origin."
The attacks have polarized
public opinion
in Germany over its open door
policy, which
has seen it take in more than a
million asylum
seekers amid the refugee crisis.
From Cologne, special
correspondent Malcolm
Brabant reports.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Dominated by
its magnificent
cathedral, Cologne has a
reputation for great
tolerance. But the city's
open-mindedness
has been stretched to the limit
by what happened
beneath the spires and near the
railway station
as the new year fireworks were
let off in
an aggressive manner by some of
those in the
crowd.
It took several days for the
full extent of
the criminal activity to be
revealed. This
young woman, who asked to remain
anonymous,
was one of more than 100 who
were assaulted.
WOMAN (through translator): All
of a sudden,
these men around us began
groping us. They
touched our behinds and grabbed
between our
legs. They touched us
everywhere. So, my girlfriend
wanted to get out of the crowd.
When I turned
around, one guy grabbed my bag
and ripped
it off my body. I thought to
myself that,
if we stay here in this crowd,
they could
kill us, they could rape us, and
nobody would
notice.
I thought we simply had to
accept it. There
was no one around us who helped
or was in
a position to help. All I wanted
was to get
out. I was scared that I
wouldn't leave this
crowd alive. I was scared that
if someone
showed up with a knife, I could
be raped in
the middle of the street.
I have nightmares at night and I
can't sleep
anymore. I am too scared to go
outside on
my own. And, of course, I'm now
scared to
go to big cities.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Writer Alice
Schwarzer is
regarded as one of Germany's
leading women's
rights activists. She believes
what happened
in Cologne marks a line in the
sand in the
debate over immigration.
ALICE SCHWARZER, Women's Rights
Activist (through
translator): In the last 40
years, we have
very successfully fought for our
rights as
women, for our freedom, for our
access to
the world, and that we are free
to move around
in it. And it's going to stay
that way, of
course.
If someone has to change, then
it's the men
who come from cultures where
women are traditionally
robbed of their rights, where
they are repressed
and the victims of violence.
These men have
been brutalized by the violence
and trauma
of war. They have problems, and
I don't want
us to have problems because of
that. They
have to change and recognize the
values and
laws of our states
unconditionally.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Parts of this
city have been
described as being as no-go
zones for women,
but some have been out on the
streets demanding
that they should be free to move
where they
wish without fear of being
attacked. They
demanded action from Chancellor
Angela Merkel,
who gave her first reaction to
the events
in Cologne and elsewhere.
ANGELA MERKEL, German Chancellor
(through
translator): What happened at
New Year is
completely unacceptable. Those
are despicable
criminal acts which a state will
not accept,
including Germany. That's why an
intensive
investigation by the relevant
institutions
is under way. This investigation
must be supported.
The feeling women had in this
case of being
completely defenseless and at
mercy is, for
me, personally intolerable, and
so it is important
that everything that happened
must come out
into the open. It's right and
it's good that
there are a lot of police
reports being filed.
MALCOLM BRABANT: These two young
Germans,
both with immigrant backgrounds,
are deeply
troubled by what happened. The
man with the
glasses, Mimoun Berrissoun,
whose parents
are from Morocco, heads a group
dedicated
to deradicalizing young Muslims
and promoting
integration.
MIMOUN BERRISSOUN, Turn 180
Degrees (through
translator): When groups of
people from other
countries come here, the first
thing they
have to do is learn the rules.
They have to
develop a sense of what they can
and can't
do.
It's possible they had the idea
in their heads
that it would be easier to get
with European
women than it actually is, and
that they had
brought this idea with them from
home, and
tried to make it reality here.
But I also
believe this is a very small
group of people
who behaved this way in that
moment.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Talha Evran,
who is of Turkish
ancestry, is worried about the
impact these
attacks will have on immigrants
who abide
by German laws.
TALHA EVRAN, Germany: The right
wing is going
to use that as a big argument.
They have been
waiting for that. And that is so
sad, because
there is big issue, this
conversation, this
discussion.
And we Germans are trying to
talk good about
them. Like, we're trying to
welcome refugees.
And if there are people
harassing people on
New Year's Eve being asylum
seekers or refugees,
you know, that's just
endangering all of that
welcoming, welcome culture.
That's what we
call it.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Tonight,
outside the scene
of the New Year's Eve assaults,
the right-wing
group known as Alternative for
Germany was
out canvassing for support.
Their polling
numbers are on the rise.
Supporter Helmut Vanichek:
HELMUT VANICHEK, Germany
(through translator):
Those guilty of crimes, but also
those whose
asylum applications are
rejected, must leave
the country, in accordance with
German law.
MALCOLM BRABANT: When the scale
of the attacks
first emerged, senior government
officials
were at pains to separate the
issue of the
refugee crisis from the criminal
activity.
But now the German authorities
say they are
18 asylum seekers among the 31
people suspected
of involvement in the troubles
on New Year's
Eve. Some of those people could
be deported
if convicted.
Meanwhile, the perceived lack of
control has
led to Cologne's police chief
being relieved
of his duties. The officers
union believes
that he's been made a scapegoat,
claiming
that government policies have
undermined their
ability to police properly.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Cologne.